Give the Lord some praise in the house.
Amen. Thank you so much team for being
here and thanks to everybody that's
watching online. I know we have all of
our folks sitting in their PJs and buddy
slippers watching us right now and but I
appreciate all the folks that's been
able to be with us today for worship and
uh thank you brother Caleb for praying
for Paul Koy [music] and the situation
with Jaden and his family. But we're
honored to have each and every one of
you here today. I want you to open your
Bibles. I'm going to teach for a little
bit out of 1 Thessalonians chapter 5
today. And I'm going to preach, I know
it's on the live stream mainly, except
for those of us here in the building,
but I'm going to preach like the
building's full. Amen. Because I believe
the word of the Lord is going to change
people's hearts and change people's
lives. And I want people to be watching
this now as well as share this broadcast
and then go back and watch it just a
little bit later. But, uh, we've prayed
a lot already this morning, so we're
going to dive right in. 1 Thessalonians
chapter number five is where I want to
go. And now let me kind of set the pace
for you if I can as far as the context
of what's happening. Now you have five
chapters in First Thessalonians and you
have only but three chapters in 2
Thessalonians. But if you combine all
eight of these chapters, they all have
the same continuity, right? They all
have the same Bible flow and they all
have the same New Testament context. and
that is the coming of the Lord Jesus
Christ. Now, the idea behind the coming
of the Lord Jesus Christ is not when
he's going to come, not how he's going
to come, but the fact that he is going
to come. And so, what he's dealing with
in these eight chapters is not to
solidify the fact that he's coming. He's
to solidify the fact that we need to be
ready for his coming. And so he explains
in eight chapters the craziness that's
going to transpire before the Lord Jesus
Christ returns to the earth. So again,
this is not a theological message on
when and how and what that looks like.
This is an idea to secure in your heart
and mind that the church needs to be
ready because days are not going to get
better and better. As my grandfather
used to say, it's not going to get
goodter and goodter. It's going to get
worse and worse. It's going to get so
bad, in fact, that the Bible says it's
going to get so evil and wicked that the
only way to change things is for Jesus
to return. Now, I know a lot of people
are like, "Well, you know, where are the
signs of his coming? Y'all been saying
for 2,000 years, yada yada yada." You
understand prophetically that it was
nearly 4,000 years predicted before his
first coming. And so, it's only been
2,000 years. We're closer now than they
were when it was written in the New
Testament. But here's what I want to
focus on today. How do we live in evil
days? How can we secure the blessing of
God in the evil days? I mean, he's
talking for eight chapters about the
Antichrist, whoever that is. He's
talking about the evils that are going
to come upon the earth. Even in chapter
5, I mean, notice this in verse one, he
even says, "Of the times and seasons,
brethren, you have no need that I write
unto you." He's like, "Look, you know,
things are bad. He I don't have to tell
you." He says, "How bad it is and how
much worse it's going to get. How many
more things are going to prophetically
transpire? So, you we could talk about
AI and we could talk about what's in the
news and we could talk about literally
Minneapolis and and the ice shootings
and all of these things and crimes and
wars and rumors of wars and what's
happening in Iran and addiction at an
all-time high. We could talk about all
of those things, but the Bible tells us
in the middle of craziness how we can
still live under the spout where the
glory comes out. We can still secure the
blessing of God. Because here's what I
refuse to do. All right? I'm almost 50
years old. I refuse to live the rest of
my life negative every day because
things are crazy in the world.
Obviously, things are going to get bad
financially. The bottom's going to fall
out. I'm not looking to the White House.
I'm looking to God's house. It doesn't
matter if a Republicans in there. It
doesn't matter if a Democrat's in there.
It doesn't matter if anybody's in there.
At the end of the day, I'm going to
sleep well at night because God is on
the throne. I'm not going to fret. I'm
not going to worry. I'm not going to
walk around chewing my fingernails of
the quick basketballized ulcers. So what
am I going to do? The Bible tells me
what to do. The Bible tells me how in
the evil days to live righteous, how to
have a prosperous marriage, how to have
a prosperous life, how to live healthy,
how to have the abundance and the
blessing of God in my life. He tells me
how to do that. So I want you to look,
if you would please, 1 Thessalonians
chapter 5. With that backdrop, he's
spending all of these chapters. It's
going to get bad. It's going to get bad.
But here's how you can still flow in the
goodness of God. All right, so if you're
ready, shout ready.
>> All right, everybody in the living room,
shout ready. Here we go. All right,
first Thessalonians chapter 5, look at
verse 14. That's where we'll begin. He
says, "Now we exhort." The word exhort
is uh kind of halfway encourage,
sometimes rebuke. Right? It's what the
word means. He's like, I'm going to
teach you something that's important and
vital that you pay attention. We exhort
you, brethren. He's not talking to the
world. He's not talking to the lost
people. He's talking to the church. I
exhort you, brethren, warn them that are
unruly. He says, "Because, and I'm not
going to stay here long, but because
days are getting short, warn the unruly
people. And if they won't listen, Daniel
and Revelation says this, when Jesus is
about to return to the earth. If people
want to live wicked and you've warned
them, you know what God says to do? Let
them live wicked. Ignore them. Let the
unruly remain unruly. Let the wicked
remain wicked. But then he says, "Let
the righteous remain righteous." So we
can live righteous in the midst of an
unrighteous culture. And so he says, "I
want you to warn the people that are
unruly." Now, let me say this. I I think
this is important. Somebody needs to
hear this. In Ezekiel chapter 3 and
Ezekiel chapter 33, God says that we're
to be watchmen on the wall. Here's what
a watchman does. A watchman warns. A
watchman says, "The trouble is coming."
Now, here's what God says about the
watchmen. If you warn people and they
don't listen, that's on them, not you.
But if you see the destruction coming
and you don't warn them and they're
taken in the judgment, that's on you,
not them. So, we need to live our life
in such a way that people's bloods not
on our hands. We're warning them, but we
can't change them. You can't change your
husband. You can't change your wife. You
can't change people. Only Jesus and the
Holy Ghost can change people's hearts.
And so he says, "Warn people that are
unruly." Then he says this, "Comfort the
feeble-minded."
Comfort the feeble-minded. Now, let me
kind of pastor you and teach you
something about that word feeble-minded.
It's very interesting word. It is the
only time this word in the original is
used at all anywhere in the entire
Bible. Feebleminded. It doesn't mean
just weak-minded people. When he says
feeble-minded, it's people that are in
need of encouragement because their lack
of courage has literally caused their
body to be weak. They're not just
weak-minded, their body's weak. They
have no courage. Uh they're discouraged.
They can't sleep well at night. And the
Bible says to comfort those kind of
people, not to look down upon them. Uh
not not to ostracize them, not to kick
them out of the fellowship. No, God
says, "Comfort people that are
weak-minded and weak in body." And I
believe the reason he says this, and and
I've got somewhere I've got to go, so
I've quickly got to get past this
because the rest of the text is what
encourages me. But I believe the reason
he says this is because the closer we
get to the coming of Christ, the more
feeble-minded people we're going to see.
People have no courage. And God says,
"Comfort the people that need
encouragement." Now, here's what I want
to be for the rest of my life. I want to
be a prophet of encouragement. Right?
There's a lot of doom and gloom.
Sometimes we got to preach rebuke. We
got to mark the unruly. We got to warn
people. We got to preach repentance. But
I want people to get around me and be
encouraged. I don't want people to be
like, "Man, I wish I could get out of
this conversation." I want people to
come to my house and feel peace. I want
them to walk in this house and feel
peace. So, we are to comfort people that
are weak in their faith. But then, watch
this. Support the weak. Not just in
their mind. support those that are poor,
those that are impoverished, those that
are hurting. Now, it's strange that
God's telling me to do all of this in
the last days. But if he's having to
tell the church to do this, logically,
that would tell me they're not doing
this, right? They're not supporting the
weak. They're not blessing the homeless.
They're not taking care of people that
are in need of a stronger marriage.
They're not blessing those that are
without. So God says, "In the last days,
do that." Then he says, "Be patient to
all men." Hello.
That doesn't sound like an end time
message, does it? Be patient unto all
men. Patience is one of the most
difficult things we will ever have to
walk in. But it is a result of the joy
and the fruits and the power of the Holy
Spirit that lives in our life. Now,
here's what's interesting. You know,
it's never called the fruit of the
Christian. It's called the fruit of the
spirit. You know why it's not called the
fruit of the Christian? Because it's not
natural for any of us to bear those
fruits. You have to have the power of
God's Holy Spirit in order to produce
the fruits of the spirit. Does that make
sense? And so if we're going to have
patience with people, we're going to
have to in the last days walk in the
spirit. Verse 15, see that you do not
render evil for evil unto any man. Now,
what's he saying? God says, "Vengeance
is mine. I will repay, sayeth the Lord."
Quit trying to fix problems in your
life. You know what I found out? When I
try to fix problems with people, I make
the problems worse. Just don't address
them. Just ignore them. My grandfather
used to say the five greatest ways to
get through adversity and criticism. He
said there are five ways that you handle
people that come against you with
division. You know how it is. Ignore
them. Ignore them. Ignore them. Ignore
them. Ignore them. Right? You just
ignore it. You walk away from it. You
you don't become part of the process or
the problem. And the Bible says, "Don't
render evil for evil." Well, they did me
wrong. Don't do wrong back. They posted
something about me I didn't like. Don't
Don't Don't post back because when you
post back, you are poking back. I've had
to stop doing that. I've done it from
the pull pit and I've had to publicly
repent. Don't give the enemy any more
credibility than he's already got in
your life. Ignore it. Don't return evil
for evil. I'm going to get them back.
No, you're not. Let God take care of it.
God is better at getting them back than
you are. Okay? He's better at that. So,
he says, "Look, don't render evil for
evil." Now, just by virtue of the fact
that he tells me that, he's showing me
that we're going to have opportunities
to do it, but we shouldn't. The devil is
going to make sure we get an opportunity
for vengeance. And God says, "Don't take
the bait. Don't render evil to other
people, but follow that which is good."
both watch this among yourselves. What's
that mean? Within the church, believers,
the body of Christ, and to all men. Now,
let that help you for a moment. Here's
what God says. God says, "Don't repay
evil to Christians,
but don't repay evil to non-Christians
either."
Okay? Lost people do not need me
punching back at them. They need the
love and the patience and the clarity of
the gospel of Jesus Christ. God says,
"Walk righteously. Don't retaliate."
Whether it be a church member or whether
it be the world's member, do not
retaliate. Now, if that makes sense, say
amen.
>> Now, we're going to get into the real
meat of the message. Watch this. Verse
number 16. He's now going to give us a a
list, like a New Testament biblical
laundry list. It's not the Ten
Commandments, but it is some New
Testament commandments. And they're just
as much commandments as the Ten
Commandments themselves. This is the
word of God. This is just as inspired as
John 3:16. And so he says, "In the last
days, here is how you position yourself
to walk in the blessings of God." Notice
this first one that flows out of his
mouth. Rejoice ever more.
That means in every situation that you
face, in every situation that I face,
you don't grumble. You don't judge. You
don't complain. You don't gripe. You
don't cuss. You don't fuss. You plant
your feet. You stand your ground. You
throw your shoulders back. And you just
choose the joy of the Lord Jesus Christ.
You know, in the book of Nehemiah, you
have people that's trying to build, you
know, supernaturally walls in 52 days.
It it should have took them 52 years to
do what they did. And they
supernaturally did it in 52 days. But
Nehemiah came to the people. He saw that
they were discouraged. He saw that their
enemies, Sandballad and Tobaya and and
Gisham the Arabian came against them.
And you know what Nehemiah did? Nehemiah
8:10. Jot that down. He says, "Neither
be sorry, for the joy of the Lord is
your strength." He He didn't say that
your good workout program will be your
strength. Waking up early will be your
strength. Drinking barley green and
protein shakes will be your strength.
Those might bring about some strength,
but God told me, "Here's your strength.
The joy of the Lord." So, IF YOU'RE
ALWAYS DISCOURAGED, NO WONDER YOU'RE
WEAK. No wonder you can't sleep at
night. No wonder your marriage is
rocking and reeling like a toothpick in
a bathtub. The Bible says when we choose
joy, when we choose to rejoice, what
happens? It brings strength into our
bodies. And so, look, it's it's horrible
outside. Rejoice evermore. That's right.
>> We rejoice when the sun shines. We
rejoice when it's slushy. We rejoice
when the building's full. And we rejoice
when only the frozen chosen can show up.
Amen. We just rejoice. We rejoice when
all the bills are paid and we rejoice
when there's far more many bills than
there is money to pay the bills at the
end of the month. Just rejoice ever
more. I'm telling you, rejoicing brings
the abundance of God. Rejoicing blesses
your children. Rejoicing blesses the
church. Listen, if people in America
would learn to just rejoice, we wouldn't
have all these riots in the streets.
People are mad at America and don't even
know why
people are ticked off and don't even
know what they're mad about. The Bible
says, "Rejoice." So, how do we live in
evil days if we want the blessing of
God? We choose to ignore the nonsense
and we just rejoice.
We just rejoice ever more in every
situation. Choose joy. Choose joy.
Choose joy. The Bible says when Jesus
came, he came to bring life and life
more abundantly,
>> not life more redundantly. People like,
"Well, you know, I'm just I just got a
dead-end job and a dead-end marriage and
dead-end finances, and I'm always going
to be sick." Yep. Because you're
speaking that mess over your life. Death
and life are in the power of the tongue.
I'm not going to walk around, well, I'm
just so unhealthy. I'm just so broke.
Oh, no. I'm an heir to the kingdom of
God. I'm a son of God. I'm anointed. I'm
a miracle in and of itself, and I flow
and operate in miracles. I'm not going
to, you know, speak death over stuff.
I'm going to rejoice. I'm just going to
rejoice. So he said, "Rejoice ever
more." That means today, tomorrow, the
next day, the next day. It means you
don't have a choice. You You don't have
any other choice. Choose to be excited
for the glory of God. Now, let me let me
say this before I go to the next verse.
I don't even know how far I can walk, so
I won't walk too far. Praise God. To get
out of the frame. But you know, in the
book of Philippians, you have four
chapters. Everybody shout four.
>> So, not 44, just four. Four little
chapters. So, so you do the math. In
four chapters, you know what Paul says?
17 times, have joy.
17 times. In four chapters, rejoice in
the Lord always. And again, I say,
rejoice. Joy, joy, joy, joy, joy, joy,
joy. Which, by the way, joy and
happiness are not the same. You know why
it's called happiness? Because it's
based on my happenings. If things are
happening, I'm happy. If things aren't
happening, I'm not happy. That's not
joy. Joy is not based on what's going on
around me. Joy is based on the God that
lives within me. And if the whole world
burns down, I can still rejoice that I'm
not going to bust hail wide open. So we
17 times are told in four chapters to
have joy. Do you know where Paul wrote
that book from? Prison.
He he wasn't sitting in the Hampton in
you. He wasn't laying around, you know,
with the air condition blowing up his
pants leg and all kind of money and, you
know, had a t-bone steak. This guy was
in prison for like the fourth time. And
he said, "Have joy. Have joy. Have joy.
Rejoice in the Lord always." And again I
say, "Rejoice. Choose to rejoice
evermore." Amen, church. And then he
goes on to verse 17 and says, "Now pray
without ceasing."
That makes people nervous. Pray without
ceasing. What does that mean? Well, I
believe it's a progression because I
believe if you walk in joy that all
throughout the day, even your thoughts
are prayers to Almighty God. Even the
things you are thinking, you can just be
driving down the road, you can just
start praying. I don't care if it's in
English or in the spirit. You can just
have joy that starts bubbling out of you
and you're just praying without ceasing.
And and I think what God's people I
don't think I know what God's people
need to get a hold of is we need to stop
going to everybody else before we talk
to God about decisions that we make. I
don't care how big they are. I don't
care how they're small that ministry,
business, family, marriage, finances. If
you will consult God first, he'll be the
best business partner you've ever had.
>> He'll be the best assistant you've ever
had in the ministry. Right? And so many
times we go to Facebook when what we
ought to do is put our face in the book
and just pray without ceasing. Ask and
it shall be given. You seek and you
shall find. Knock and it shall be open
unto you. For everyone that ask
receives. To him that seeks finds. And
to him that knockketh it shall be open.
Matthew 7:78:9 God affirmatively,
positively says, "If you will call unto
me, I will answer thee and show thee
great and mighty things which thou
knowest not." Jeremiah 33:3. So I can
promise you 100% of the prayers you
don't pray will never be answered.
100% of the prayers you don't pray will
never be answered. We are to rejoice
evermore and to pray without ceasing
every day, all the time. your car, your
life, everywhere you go, your cubicle at
work, everything you touch should be an
altar for the presence of God. Pray
without ceasing. Verse 18, in
everything. Shout everything.
>> That's not some things, the good things,
the great things, the enjoyable things.
No, no, no. In everything give thanks.
In everything
give thanks. And and then he adds
something here that I don't want you to
miss. For this, the this is referring to
the giving of thanks. For this is the
will of God in Christ Jesus concerning
you. Now,
I don't know a whole lot about the
Bible, but I want to learn more and more
every day, but I've got enough hillbilly
redneck sense to figure out that there's
only a handful of times. I can only find
like four in the whole Bible. Correct me
if I'm wrong. I can only find four times
in the whole Bible where God
specifically said, "This is my will for
your life." Everybody wants to know the
will of God. It's the number one
question I get as a shepherd. How can I
know the will of God? Well, just a
handful of times, this being one of
them. God says, "Here's how you can know
that you are right in my perfect will.
Give thanks." That's the will of God.
What am I supposed to do with my life,
pastor? Give thanks. Because it's in the
giving of thanks that God will pave the
way when there is no way and show you
where you're supposed to go. Gratitude
opens doors that complaining will slam
shut on you. I felt that. I'll say that
again. Gratitude will open doors that
complaining and grumbling will slam shut
on you. He says in everything, give
thanks. When your kids are godly, give
thanks. When they're buck wild, give
thanks. When the church is growing, give
thanks. When the church is shrinking,
give thanks. When America is on fire
with revival, give thanks. When
America's going to hell in a hand
basket, give thanks for the revival
that's on the way. Give thanks. When the
offering buckets are packed, give thanks
when they are lean. [screaming]
Give thanks
when it's sunshining. Give thanks when
it's not. Give thanks. As I've said many
times, you can always find a rainbow in
an oil spill. You you you find an oil
spill on the ground. You know what
you'll see? You'll see a rainbow. You'll
see color. You can always find the good
in every situation. Now, here's what I
have a difficulty with, but God help me.
I want to learn to give thanks for the
people in my life that I wish sometimes
weren't in my life.
I'm learning to give thanks for haters.
You know why? Because haters help my
direction better in life.
I I'm going to start giving thanks for
people online that say silly stuff
because it helps me to realize in every
criticism, there's some truth that I can
learn and there's some way that I can
humble myself and be better. We need to
be thankful in every situation in which
we find ourselves. You know, some of
you, you know, in the room, but some of
you watching right now or watching
later, here's what you need to know. If
you would just learn to rejoice and give
thanks to God, your situation would
change in a matter of 24 hours. If it
even takes that long. I mean, we can
grumble. We can complain. I see people
all the time, you know, OH MY GOODNESS,
MY FLIGHT GOT DELAYED. MY FLIGHT GOT
CANCELLED. Blankety blank blank. I can't
believe that. Maybe God's protecting you
and you ought to just thank him in
advance because the next flight you get
on, you're going to meet somebody that
you get to lead to Jesus Christ because
they're discouraged and they see joy in
you. We miss so many opportunities to
minister to people because we grumble
too much. We belly ache too much. We
complain and God says, "No, what I want
you to do is not only rejoice, but in
every situation of your life, just give
thanks." You know, we celebrate in
America, thanksgiving.
And we do that like one time a year, we
think we've done God a favor. Let's
break out the turkey and have
Thanksgiving. No, no, no, no, no. We
ought to have Thanksgiving today,
tomorrow, the next day, the next day,
the ne. Thank God for everything that we
have. Even the stuff that perhaps we
have never been thankful for, things
that we wish that we did not have to
have come into our life. God says, "Be
thankful in every situation. Be thankful
in every season." Why? It's the will of
God. I want to know the will of God. I
just told you the will of God. Be
grateful. So, here's what I know. If
you're not grateful, you're not in God's
will.
Oh. Huh? That one hit. If we are not
grateful, thankful believers, because
there's always something to be grateful
for, we're not in the will of God.
Because the Bible says the will of God
is that in everything you I we give
thanks. Amen. It's that simple. Some of
you right now watching, just just begin
to thank the Lord. Thank God for
everything he has done and thank him for
even some of the things he's not done
that you thought he should have done.
Now, he wasn't a great theologian,
obviously, but remember that song
growing up, sometimes I thank God for
unanswered prayer. Well, I want you to
know that sometimes you ought to thank
God that he didn't give you what you
wanted because it would have ruined you
when you got it. It would have ruined
you when you got it. In everything, give
thanks for it's the will of God in
Christ Jesus concerning you. I thought
this was going to feel weird this
morning, but I'm feeling pretty good
right now. Amen. I'm about getting in
high gear. Look at verse 19. Quench not
the spirit.
>> Quench not the spirit. Now it's the same
somewhat maybe a little bit more
forceful of Ephesians 5:18. Be not drunk
with wine wherein is excess but be
filled with the spirit. And then he
tells us in verse 30 to extinguish not
grieve not the Holy Spirit of God. Now
why does he tell me not to grieve the
spirit of God, not to quench the spirit
of God? Because God is a person. The
spirit of God is not an it. He's not an
entity. I He's an actual person that has
emotions.
God characteristics.
And the Bible says, "Do not quench God's
spirit. Do not extinguish the flame." It
would be like the fire of God's burning
in us, but because of disobedience and
complaining and whatever else, we take a
fire extinguisher
and we put out the fire of God. We
wonder sometimes, HOW COME THE DEVIL HAS
PUT OUT THE CHURCH'S FIRE? We've put out
the church's fire because we quench the
spirit of the living God that literally
resides within us. You know, Webster
that wrote Webster's dictionary, 1828, I
believe it was, he was probably known as
one of the greatest scientists,
biologists, mathematicians, theologians.
This guy was known for everything. I
mean, there's not anything he could not
do well. And a reporter came to Mr.
Webster one day and said, "Mr. Webster,
what is the greatest thought that's ever
coursed its way through your brilliant
mind?" And without hesitation, Webster
said, "God
lives in my body.
Think about that. God lives in my body.
And because he lives in my body, the
Bible says, "Do not extinguish. Do not
quench the spirit of God." And by the
way, we all know when we've done it.
You, you know, you should have said
something to somebody, but you didn't.
You should have, you know, loved on that
person. You You should have went across
over in In-N-Out or Hardies or, you
know, wherever you are in some airport,
some restaurant. And God says, "Go talk
to that person." And you're like me. And
you walk out. You know what you feel
when you get in your car? Guilty as the
day is long because you quenched the
spirit. You knew you should have blessed
that homeless person. You knew that
single mom in Walmart couldn't pay for
her groceries and God said, "Go swipe
your card." And you're like, "Well, you
know, maybe that wasn't you, Lord." God
says, "No, you go do it." And then you
get in your car and you're like, "Oh, I
wished I would have done that." What did
you do? You quench the spirit. Don't
quench the spirit. Feed the spirit. PUT
MORE FIRE. PUT MORE KINDLING in on the
power of the Holy Spirit inside of you.
Get fired up. Listen, people do not get
to regulate my power of the Holy Spirit.
People like, "Well, you know, I got to
come to church and get revved up." I
come to church revved up. I don't have
to have a drum roll to get me excited. I
don't have to have somebody else
worshiping to make me want to worship.
You ain't got to wave a flag to make me
want to wave when I come to church ready
to go.
Listen, I grew up preaching to Billy
Goats in a barn at a children's home.
So, I don't care if the whole place is
empty. I'm going to preach like it's a
Billy Graham crusade.
Quench not the spirit. Let the fire
burn. I heard an oldtimer say one time,
"When the church catches fire, just let
her burn. Just let her burn."
[clears throat] Now, watch this verse
20. This is a very uh interesting verse
because I grew up taking it completely
out of its context because and I'm I'm
not bismerching this denomination, but
because I grew up so Baptist, they they
would change the word. But I want to
prove to you that they were wrong. Look
at this verse 20. Despise not, watch
this next word, prophesyings.
I used to say, well, you know, the Bible
says don't despise preaching. It says
despise not prophesying.
The word for prophesy and the word for
preach are two entirely different Greek
words. You can run on chat GPT and grock
right now while I'm talking just to get
in there. Say, is it the same word? Is
preacher line? It'll come back and say
pastor Lock's right because the Bible's
right. It does not say despise not
preachings. Now, you should love
preaching, especially if it's coming out
of the Bible. Now, if the guy's just,
you know, up there saying nonsense and
not preaching the word of God, you don't
have to love it, right? You you can
despise that because if somebody's a
heretic, but that's not what this means.
And I used to say, well, the Bible says
that you should love preaching. Don't
despise preaching. That's not what it
says. It says, "Despise not prophecy.
>> Preaching and prophesying are two very
different things." Matter of fact, the
Bible says in the book of First
Corinthians, when it talks about the
gifts of the Holy Spirit, it says, you
know, you should want to prophesy
to give a word, by the way, that doesn't
contradict God's word. If somebody says,
"Well, I know what the Bible says, but".
I'm like, "Oh, no, no. You keep your
butt out of it. I know what the word of
God says." Right? So don't tell me
something that contradicts the
scriptures. But if you have a word
that's going to lift me up, maybe even
rebuke me and make me better and
encourage me. If the Bible says, don't
despise that. God gives people prophetic
utterances. And by the way, it doesn't
mean that they have to walk in the
office of a prophet.
You may just be some simple single mom
and one day the Lord gives you a word of
knowledge and you walk up to the altar
and say, "Can I tell you something the
Lord told me to tell you?" Bam. And you
can be just as accurate as Paul was.
despise not prophesyings
because there are times that to go along
with the word of God. The word of God's
enough. Okay, say amen. I get that. The
word of God's enough. But in the body,
WE BUILD EACH OTHER UP. NOT ALWAYS BY
BEATING EACH OTHER WITH THE BIBLE. We
build each OTHER UP BECAUSE WE GOT SO
MUCH BIBLE. WE HAVE A word from heaven
that helps people walk in the Bible a
little bit better. And so we have to
despise not prophesying. Now you'll
know, test the spirits. You'll know if
somebody comes up and starts saying
stupid stuff, right? And everybody
sometimes in church wants to say stupid
stuff. But if somebody has a legitimate
word from God, you know, Paul said in
these last days, don't despise it
because it's interesting that he only
says this in context of the coming of
Christ in the theological context of the
last days. Why? Because the closer we
get to the coming of Jesus Christ, the
more we need to speak life into each
other. And we don't need to despise
that. We need to appreciate and grab a
hold of the people in our life that have
enough Holy Ghost discernment to tell us
go left, go right, stay straight, don't
back up. Make sure you get some people
around you that aren't just yes people,
but they're willing to prophesy into
your life and say this is what the
spirit of God revealed to me. Don't
despise that. Verse 21, prove all things
means to test. And I think that's
interesting that it comes right after
he's talking about a prophetic
utterance, a word of knowledge. He's
like, "Okay, you don't have to just
accept it. Prove it. Test it." Then he
says this. Once you've proved it, hold
fast that which is good.
In lockology, here's what he says. You
test it, you find it to be right, don't
compromise.
Don't back down.
Stay bold in the faith. My goodness, if
there was ever a day in which people
needed a baptism of boldness and
courage, it's this day. I mean, I've
never seen so many wishy-washy pastors,
wishy-washy people, wishy-washy
churches, wishy-washy marriages. I mean,
people up one day, down the next, just
lick their finger, stick it in the wind.
Oh, let's just see which way the
culturees blowing. Listen, I'm not a
cultural Christian. I'm a Bible
Christian. Because the Bible and the
culture are on a collision course. You
are one or the other, but you are not
both at the same time. WE HAVE TO HOLD
FAST what we know to be good, what we
know to be righteous. Even when the
world hates it, even when the internet
can't stand you, even when people get
mad, even when people leave, even when
people in your family like, "We can't
have them over for Thanksgiving because
they're just too controversial." Hold
fast. When you know something's right,
don't let hell itself knock you off
point. Hold fast. And by the way, the
reason he's saying this in the context
of the last days, the evil days, is
because the closer we get to the coming
of Christ, the more opportunities for
compromise we're going to have
to be comfortable. Well, you know, I
just I don't want to be looked like look
like a Jesus freak. Oh, I'm counting on
it. Oh, I'm absolutely counting on it. I
don't care what people think about me.
I'm over that. I am too old to play
their elementary games. No bully on the
playground is going to get my lunch,
right? God gave it to me and I ain't
giving it up. I'm going to hold fast
what I know to be good and what I know
to be right because I am not in a
popularity contest. I am not trying to
please man. I'm trying to glorify my
heavenly father. And then he says
something in verse 22 that really should
be extremely sobering to us. He said
abstain remove yourself from all watch
this appearance of evil.
Now that's interesting. He didn't say
remove yourself from evil.
He said, "Remove yourself from even the
appearance of evil." You know, sometimes
people say, "Well, you know, a pastor
needs to live their life above
reproach." Yeah, I get it. But so should
you.
>> We should all live above reproach.
People should not be able to say, "Hey,
you know, uh, I saw so- and so going
somewhere, right? Even if you have good
intentions, the Bible says abstain from
the appearance of evil." Not the evil
itself, just the very appearance. Now, I
know I know that you don't live in a
glass house. Neither do I. It's very
difficult to, you know, sometimes get
people to to understand how you think
and the motivation of your heart. And
God knows your heart and man looks on
the outward appearance. I get all of
that. There always going to be whispers.
There's always going to be gossip.
There's always going to be people saying
stupid things about stupid stuff. But to
the best of your ability, live your life
in a way that people cannot drag you to
the ground because something is poor in
your testimony.
Not just the evil, but the appearance of
evil. Now, I could give you
150 illustrations personally in my own
life of some of the ways that I go about
this. But for example, did you know
there are people, believe it or not, in
your life, but especially in mine when
you're a public figure, everything's
public. Do you know there are people
that are waiting for my downfall?
Matter of fact, they're like they're
like begging God for it. They're looking
for any opportunity they can find. So,
WHAT I'VE GOT TO NOT do is give them
that opportunity to appear as if I'm
doing something evil. So, here's one of
the things I do, and I'm not putting
this on anybody. I'm not being a
legalist. I'm just telling you here's
how I live my life. And and my wife,
who's watching right now from the
comfort of of our room, is going to
agree with this.
I never ever shout never.
I will never ride in a vehicle with a
female by myself who's not my wife.
>> I I just I don't. And get this, when I'm
driving someone somewhere and maybe
there's even other people in the car,
the female is not going to sit up front
because when I get to a red light, do
you know one of my haters is going to be
at that red light and they're going to
be like, "Uh-huh.
Look at old lock there in the TRX. He's
got some chick in the front seat. I
don't care who it is. I'm going to
abstain from all appearance of evil.
And to me, that that may seem very naive
or simplistic, but it keeps me out of a
lot of trouble. Somebody's like, "Oh,
could you could you come to my house and
counsel me?" Not if your husband ain't
home.
>> That's right.
>> Somebody want to take a picture of me
walking in your house when your husband
ain't home. You kidding me? Let me let
me go one step further. I know you gonna
think I'm a real legalist now, but I'm
not. I'm not.
I like candy. I really do. I like
sweets. I like sugar. It's of the Lord.
I felt that, right? I love sugar. And uh
you know, one of the things I'm careful
about not doing is if I'm driving down
the road, especially if it's like my
windows are down or I'm sitting at the
red light. I do not even have a sucker
stick hanging out of my mouth when I'm
driving around town. You know why? Cuz
somebody wants to think I done got a
Marbor cigarette hanging out of my
mouth.
I I did a video one time. I I I did a
video one time and I was chewing on
sunflower seeds. I It was just like a I
was like, you know, spitting some
sunflower seeds. I was doing some
redneck thing in my truck. And I mean,
THERE WAS A WHOLE POST OF CRAIG LOCK'S A
COPENHAGEN ADDICT. And I'm like, okay.
Uh I can't stand the stuff cuz when I
was a child, my grandfather said, "You
want some red man?" I said, "Yeah, cuz
I'm a real man." He said, "Get you some
of that red man." He said, "Take you a
big swallow."
I put that tobacco in my mouth about 8
years old. I swallowed it down. Turned
green as grass. And I ain't never
touched that mess since. But I don't
want anybody to think that I'm doing
anything unbiblical, even driving down
the road. So to you, that may not seem
like a big deal, but to me, I'm going to
guard my testimony and avoid the
appearance of evil. Amen. The very
appearance of evil. Now go to verse
number 23. We about done.
And the very God of watch this, peace.
That's a beautiful word right there. You
know why? Because this whole book's not
about peace. It's about some judgment.
It's about some craziness coming on the
scene. The world just absolutely
imploding and exploding in the last
days. But he said there's a God of
peace. And let that God sanctify you,
set you apart. Holy.
Now, let me stop and say this. You'll
notice that word holy is not what we
sang a moment ago. H O L Y. It's W H O L
L Y. You know what that means? that the
main goal that God has in your life is
not you be healed, it's that you be
whole.
I know people that get healings that
don't have wholeness.
I know people that get deliverance from
demons but don't have wholeness and
peace. And the Bible says in these last
days, the God of peace, he'll give you a
sanctification and you will be whole in
your spirit, whole in your body, whole
in your marriage, whole in your
finances. And I pray your whole spirit
and soul and body, watch this, be
preserved blameless.
Blameless. Somebody says, "Are you
telling me that I can be sinless?" No.
But I'm telling you, you can sin less.
Huh? Am I going to be sinless? No. No.
No. But you can sin less because if I
hide the word of GOD IN MY HEART, THE
BIBLE SAYS I'll not sin against God.
I'll not sin against God. He wants me to
be blameless until when? Until the
church gets better. until the nation
turns around. No, watch this. Until the
coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
How long am I to live out these
principles? Until Jesus checks me out of
here.
The rest of my life I am to live under
these blessings until God comes again.
And then he says, "Faithful is he."
Notice he doesn't say faithful is me.
Faithful is he. Faithful is he that
calleth you, who also will do it. You
know, I learned a long time ago,
anything good you see in me, God did it.
Anything rotten you see in me, Greg Lock
did every bit of it. God had nothing to
do with it, right? He is faithful. He
calls me. He will do it. Then he says,
"Brethren, pray for us. Greet all the
brethren with a holy kiss." Now, there
are limitations to that. Somebody say
amen right there. I charge you by the
Lord that this epistle be read unto all
the holy brethren. Almost 2,000 years
later, you know what we're doing? We're
reading this epistle to the holy
brethren right here at Global Vision
Bible Church on a snowy day right in
this room. That the grace of our Lord
Jesus Christ be with you. And all of
God's people said, "Amen." He said,
"Amen. This is how you secure the
blessing of God in the last days that
are evil. You don't worry about the
evil. You don't fret about the evil. You
don't fuss and cuss about the evil. No.
No. What you do is you confront the evil
by the way that you live your life. This
world will not steal my peace.
>> The church world will not steal my
peace. You know, people like the devil
got this and the devil got that. If the
devil has it, you gave it to him.
If the devil has it, you gave it to him.
Somebody took my peace, then stop giving
it away. SOMEBODY TOOK MY JOY CUZ YOU
GAVE IT to him. Take it back. Take it
back. What's that song we sing? I I went
to the enemy's camp and took back what
he stole from me. We handed it to him.
We gave him our inheritance. And God
says, Greg Lock, Global Vision, whoever
you are in the room, whoever you are
watching this, he says, "What I want you
to do is know how to secure my
blessings. And here's how you do it. You
get your nose out of the newspaper and
you stick it in the Bible. And he said
right here, verse after verse, "Rejoice
evermore. Pray without ceasing. In
everything give thanks. Quench not the
spirit. Despise not prophesyings. Test
all things. Hold fast. Abstain from all
appearance of evil. Do good to the
people that hate you. Don't render evil
for evil." Romans says, "Give good back
to those that give you evil. Pray for
those that persecute you and wrongfully
accuse and criticize and judge you."
That's how we live in the last days. So,
we have a choice. We can live the way
most so-called believers live and we can
have anxiety and heaviness and
depression and all these problems and we
can't sleep at night and we're never
happy. Or we can do what the Bible says.
And the Bible tells me how to secure,
not just hope so, think so, maybe so,
where deacons are going to vote so, to
secure
the blessing of God in my life in the
midst of days that are evil and
ridiculous. And I don't know about any
of you, and I don't know about you, but
I want the blessing of God on my life. I
want the hand and the power and the
manifest presence of God to be on my
life. And the only way I can do that is
if my life is living itself as if I'm
walking right out of the pages of
scripture.
Father, we love you today and we thank
you for the privilege that that we've
had just to study the Bible. It's just
been red-hot Bible study today, Lord.
Lord, we can complain that things are
crazy.
We can get all upset that things are
wicked, but you said it was going to
happen. You predicted, you prophesied in
the Bible that in the last days,
perilous, dangerous, ludicrous, crazy
times were going to come. But you never
ever told us to fret, to worry,
to guess what's going to happen. No, no,
no. You said, "Keep your lamp filled
with the oil of the Holy Ghost. Be ready
always to give an answer to every man
that ask you of the hope in the Lord
Jesus that lies within you." So Lord, I
thank you for this room.
I thank you for every room watching and
those that will watch later.
Lord, would you honor us as we honor
you? Would you lift us up as we lift
your word and hide it in our hearts that
we might not sin against you? Wherewith
all shall a young man cleanse his way by
taking heed thereto according to thy
word. With my whole heart have I sought
thee. Oh, let me not wander from your
commandments, but seek ye first the
kingdom of God and his righteousness,
and all of these things shall be added
unto you. This book of the law shall not
depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt
meditate therein day and night, that
thou mayest observe to do according TO
ALL THAT IS WRITTEN THEREIN. For then
thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and
then thou shalt have good success. Lord,
show us that no matter what is happening
around us, let not your hearts be
troubled. Ye believe in God, believe
also in me. In my father's house are
many mansions. If it were not so, I
would have told you. And Lord, no matter
what we face, we face it with you beside
us. Cuz you'll never leave us and you'll
never forsake us.
And we thank you, Lord, that yay, though
we may walk through the valley of the
shadow of death, just like Paul Koy's
family is walking through right now,
we'll fear no evil, for you are with us.
Your rod and your staff comforts us. You
prepare a table in the presence of our
enemies. Surely goodness and mercy shall
follow me all the days of my life. And
I'll dwell in the house of the Lord
forever. For the Lord has not given us
the spirit of fear, but of love, power,
and a sound mind. We thank you for the
Bible. We thank you for the body of
Christ. We thank you for this local
house here at Global Vision. Would you
bless every person here? Bless us with
safety. Lord, we know it's supposed to
refreeze and rera, but you're in control
of all of it. Your rain comes upon the
just and the unjust. protect us as we
travel home. Bless every person that's
watching this broadcast right now. May
you invade them in their space right now
in their home, in their living room, in
their car, wherever they are watching
this. I pray that the power of God would
overtake them. Thank you that when we
dwell in the presence of the Lord, we're
under the shadow of the protective
influence of the power of God's
presence. Thank you for what you've
taught us today. And may we walk in the
secured blessing of God in these evil
days in the name of Jesus. And all of
God's people said, "Amen and amen." I
want you to get up, get around. I know
we got to get out of here. It's almost
12:10. I want you to hug some folks. I
want you to love some people here in the
room. Everybody that's been watching,
thank you. [music] Thank you. Please
share this broadcast and I know the
Lord's going to use it in a mighty,
mighty way. God bless you. We love you.
We'll see you soon. Obviously, men,
we're going to sleep in in the morning.
We're not going to have Bible study
because it's supposed to get a little
bit more treacherous. But for now, we'll
see you Wednesday night at 7 o'clock. We
love you guys. God bless you.
Good night.